### Kick-off meeting of MIWP Sub-group 2.3.2

### Simplification of Data and Service Linking 

The meeting was held on March 4, 2021, 10:00 - 11:30 CEST (via WebEx).

The meeting was chaired by JRC and attended by experts from AT, DE, DK, EL, ES, FR, LT, NL, PL, SE and SK.

#### Agenda: 

1. Welcome (JRC) 
2. Tour de table (All) 
3. Introduction and scope of the work (JRC) 
4. Technical challenges (JRC) 
5. Discussion (All) 
6. Organization of work (JRC, All) 
7. Q&A, discussion (All) 

#### Discussion:

DE raised the issue of licensing differences, as well as different use- and access- constraints between datasets and services, in the context of removing of the service metadata. JRC pointed that usually licenses apply to the dataset, while the service should be exposing the same data. A more detailed discussion on licensing issues to be continued later and reflected in the proposals. 

DE appreciated the fact that the simplified approach is supposed to be an alternative to be used in parallel with the current one. JRC acknowledged that we do not intend to break existing implementations.

SK underlined the importance of simplification and pointed that very often data is created and maintained by independent data providers. Highlighted the need to include the implications, benefits and risks in the simplification proposals. Mentioned there may be cases where datasets have heterogeneous licensing conditions and the services that expose the data may have different licensing conditions. Underlined the importance of supporting not only open data.

JRC indicated that one of the objectives of the simplification activity is removing of the need of extending standards used for view- and download- services, e.g. elimination of extra requirements to WMS or WFS. This should allow off-the-shelf software to satisfy the needs of and be used to implement INSPIRE.

JRC mentioned that we are redesigning the Geoportal based on GeoNetwork, and we would like to use the outcome of the work of the group in the implementation, which is the reason for the tight schedule.

SE raised the problem of some agencies in SE who cannot use GitHub due to legal issues. JRC replied that there is an official [JRC repository](https://github.com/ec-jrc/) used for various projects without issues, and suggested to have a look at the licenses used in the repository.

DE asked about the reasons for involving the GeoNetwork community. JRC replied that the outreach to community is done in order to ensure upfront implementability, with the intention to try and test everything in the beginning and secure smooth implementation afterwards. It is not limited to GeoNetwork, but applies to any solution that may be used for the implementation of INSPIRE. 

JRC mentioned some practical aspects of how to follow the GitHub repository in order to get notified as soon as there is a new issue or a new document is published.

The group agreed for the proposed roadmap of tasks.

#### Actions:

Member States to prepare and share proposals for technical approaches according to the [template](../../proposals/template.md) in the GitHub space by the end of the month of March.

The second meeting will be scheduled between 6 and 9 April through an internal poll.

 
